said Harry, taking even himself by surprise. Now nobody seemed to want
to look at him.

"I think we will leave the lesson here for today," said Professor
Trelawney in her mistiest voice. "Yes... please pack away your
things...."

Silently the class took their teacups back to Professor Trelawney,
packed away their books, and closed their bags. Even Ron was avoiding
Harry's eyes.

"Until we meet again," said Professor Trelawney faintly, "fair fortune
be yours. Oh, and dear" -- she pointed at Neville -- "you'll be late
next time, so mind you work extra-hard to catch up."

Harry, Ron, and Hermione descended Professor Trelawney's ladder and the
winding stair in silence, then set off for Professor McGonagall's
Transfiguration lesson. It took them so long to find her classroom that,
early as they had left Divination, they were only just in time.

Harry chose a seat right at the back of the room, feeling as though he
were sitting in a very bright spotlight; the rest of the class kept
shooting furtive glances at him, as though he were about to drop dead at
any moment. He hardly heard what Professor McGonagall was telling them
about Animagi (wizards who could transform at will into animals), and
wasn't even watching when she transformed herself in front of their eyes
into a tabby cat with spectacle markings around her eyes.

"Really, what has got into you all today?" said Professor McGonagall,
turning back into herself with a faint pop, and staring around at them
all. "Not that it matters, but that's the first time my transformation's
not got applause from a class."

Everybody's heads turned toward Harry again, but nobody spoke. Then
Hermione raised her hand.

"Please, Professor, we've just had our first Divination class, and we
were reading the tea leaves, and --"

"Ah, of course," said Professor McGonagall, suddenly frowning.

"There is no need to say any more, Miss Granger. Tell me, which of you
will be dying this year?"

Everyone stared at her.

"Me," said Harry, finally.

"I see," said Professor McGonagall, fixing Harry with her beady eyes.
"Then you should know, Potter, that Sibyll Trelawney has predicted the
death of one student a year since she arrived at this school. None of
them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her favorite way of greeting a
new class. If it were not for the fact that I never speak ill of my
colleagues --"

Professor McGonagall broke off, and they saw that her nostrils had gone
white. She went on, more calmly, "Divination is one of the most
imprecise branches of magic. I shall not conceal from you that I have
very little patience with it. True Seers are very rare, and Professor
Trelawney --"

She stopped again, and then said, in a very matter-of-fact tone, "You
look in excellent health to me, Potter, so you will excuse me if I don't
let you off homework today. I assure you that if you die, you need not
hand it in."

Hermione laughed. Harry felt a bit better. It was harder to feel scared
of a lump of tea leaves away from the dim red light and befuddling
perfume of Professor Trelawney's classroom. Not everyone was convinced,
however. Ron still looked worried, and Lavender whispered, "But what
about Neville's cup?"

When the Transfiguration class had finished, they joined the crowd
thundering toward the Great Hall for lunch.

"Ron, cheer up," said Hermione, pushing a dish of stew toward him. "You
heard what Professor McGonagall said."

Ron spooned stew onto his plate and picked up his fork but didn't start.

"Harry," he said, in a low, serious voice, "You haven't seen a great
black dog anywhere, have you?"

"Yeah, I have," said Harry. "I saw one the night I left the Dursleys'. "

Ron let his fork fall with a clatter.

"Probably a stray," said Hermione calmly.

Ron looked at Hermione as though she had gone mad.

"Hermione, if Harry's seen a Grim, that's -- that's bad," he said. "My
-- my uncle Bilius saw one and -- and he died twenty-four hours later!"

"Coincidence," said Hermione airily, pouring herself some pumpkin juice.

"You don't know what you're talking about!" said Ron, starting to get
angry. "Grims scare the living daylights out of most wizards!"

"There you are, then," said Hermione in a superior tone. "They see the
Grim and die of fright. The Grim's not an omen, it's the cause of death!
And Harry's still with us because he's not stupid enough to see one and
think, right, well, I'd better kick the bucket then!"

Ron mouthed wordlessly at Hermione, who opened her bag, took out her new
Arithmancy book, and propped it open against the juice jug.

"I think Divination seems very woolly," she said, searching for her
page. "A lot of guesswork, if you ask me."

"There was nothing woolly about the Grim in that cup!" said Ron hotly.

"You didn't seem quite so confident when you were telling Harry it was a
sheep," said Hermione coolly.

"Professor Trelawney said you didn't have the right aura! You just don't
like being bad at something for a change!"

He had touched a nerve. Hermione slammed her Arithmancy book down on the
table so hard that bits of meat and carrot flew everywhere.

"If being good at Divination means I have to pretend to see death omens
in a lump of tea leaves, I'm not sure I'll be studying it much longer!
That lesson was absolute rubbish compared with my Arithmancy class!"

She snatched up her bag and stalked away.

Ron frowned after her.

"What's she talking about?" he said to Harry. "She hasn't been to an
Arithmancy class yet."

Harry was pleased to get out of the castle after lunch. Yesterday's rain
had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale gray, and the grass was springy
and damp underfoot as they set off for their first ever Care of Magical
Creatures class.

Ron and Hermione weren't speaking to each other. Harry walked beside
them in silence as they went down the sloping lawns to Hagrid's hut on
the edge of the Forbidden Forest. It was only when he spotted three
only-too- familiar backs ahead of them that he realized they must be
having these lessons with the Slytherins. Malfoy was talking animatedly
to Crabbe and Goyle, who were chortling. Harry was quite sure he knew
what they were talking about.

Hagrid was waiting for his class at the door of his hut. He stood in his
moleskin overcoat, with Fang the boarhound at his heels, looking
impatient to start.

"C'mon, now, get a move on!" he called as the class approached. "Got a
real treat for yeh today! Great lesson comin' up! Everyone here? Right,
follow me!"

For one nasty moment, Harry thought that Hagrid was going to lead them
into the forest; Harry had had enough unpleasant experiences in there to
last him a lifetime. However, Hagrid strolled off around the edge of the
trees, and five minutes later, they found themselves outside a kind of
paddock. There was nothing in there.

"Everyone gather 'round the fence here!" he called. "That's it -- make
sure yeh can see -- now, firs' thing yeh'll want ter do is open yer
books --"

"How?" said the cold, drawling voice of Draco Malfoy.

"Eh?" said Hagrid.

"How do we open our books?" Malfoy repeated. He took out his copy of The
Monster Book of Monsters, which he had bound shut with a length of rope.
Other people took theirs out too; some, like Harry, had belted their
book shut; others had crammed them inside tight bags or clamped them
together with binder clips.

"Hasn' -- hasn' anyone bin able ter open their books?" said Hagrid,
looking crestfallen.

The class all shook their heads.

"Yeh've got ter stroke 'em," said Hagrid, as though this was the most
obvious thing in the world. "Look --"

He took Hermione's copy and ripped off the Spellotape that bound it. The
book tried to bite, but Hagrid ran a giant forefinger down its spine,
and the book shivered, and then fell open and lay quiet in his hand.

"Oh, how silly we've all been!" Malfoy sneered. "We should have stroked
them! why didn't we guess!"

"I -- I thought they were funny," Hagrid said uncertainly to Hermione.

"Oh, tremendously funny!" said Malfoy. "Really witty, giving us books
that try and rip our hands off!"

"Shut up, Malfoy," said Harry quietly. Hagrid was looking downcast and
Harry wanted Hagrid's first lesson to be a success.

"Righ' then," said Hagrid, who seemed to have lost his thread, "so -- so
yeh've got yer books an' -- an' - - now yeh need the Magical Creatures.
Yeah. So I'll go an' get 'em. Hang on... "

He strode away from them into the forest and out of sight.

"God, this place is going to the dogs," said Malfoy loudly. "That oaf
teaching classes, my father'll have a fit when I tell him

"Shut up, Malfoy," Harry repeated.

"Careful, Potter, there's a dementor behind you

"Oooooooh!" squealed Lavender Brown, pointing toward the opposite side
of the paddock.

Trotting toward them were a dozen of the most bizarre creatures Harry
had ever seen. They had the bodies, hind legs, and tails of horses, but
the front legs, wings, and heads of what seemed to be giant eagles, with
cruel, steel-colored beaks and large, brilliantly, orange eyes. The
talons on their front legs were half a foot long and deadly looking.
Each of the beasts had a thick leather collar around its neck, which was
attached to a long chain, and the ends of all of these were held in the
vast hands of Hagrid, who came jogging into the paddock behind the
creatures.

"Gee up, there!" he roared, shaking the chains and urging the creatures
toward the fence where the class stood. Everyone drew back slightly as
Hagrid reached them and tethered the creatures to the fence.

"Hippogriffs!" Hagrid roared happily, waving a hand at them. "Beau'iful,
aren' they?"

Harry could sort of see what Hagrid meant. Once you got over the first
shock of seeing something that was, half horse, half bird, you started
to appreciate the hippogriffs' gleaming coats, changing smoothly from
feather to hair, each of them a different color: stormy gray, bronze,
pinkish roan, gleaming chestnut, and inky black.

"So," said Hagrid, rubbing his hands together and beaming around, "if
yeh wan' ter come a bit nearer --"

No one seemed to want to. Harry, Ron, and Hermione, however, approached
the fence cautiously.

"Now, firs' thing yeh gotta know abou' hippogriffs is, they're proud,"
said Hagrid. "Easily offended, hippogriffs are. Don't never insult one,
'cause it might be the last thing yeh do."

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle weren't listening; they were talking in an
undertone and Harry had a nasty feeling they were plotting how best to
disrupt the lesson.

"Yeh always wait fer the hippogriff ter make the firs' move," Hagrid
continued. "It's polite, see? Yeh walk toward him, and yeh bow, an' yeh
wait. If he bows back, yeh're allowed ter touch him. If he doesn' bow,
then get away from him sharpish, 'cause those talons hurt.

"Right -- who wants ter go first?"

Most of the class backed farther away in answer. Even Harry, Ron, and
Hermione had misgivings. The hippogriffs were tossing their fierce heads
and flexing their powerful wings; they didn't seem to like being
tethered like this.

"No one?" said Hagrid, with a pleading look.

"I'll do it," said Harry.

There was an intake of breath from behind him, and both Lavender and
Parvati whispered, "Oooh, no, Harry, remember your tea leaves!"

Harry ignored them. He climbed over the paddock fence.

"Good man, Harry!" roared Hagrid. "Right then -- let's see how yeh get
on with Buckbeak."

He untied one of the chains, pulled the gray hippogriff away from its
fellows, and slipped off its leather collar. The class on the other side
of the paddock seemed to be holding its breath. Malfoy's eyes were
narrowed maliciously.

"Easy) now, Harry," said Hagrid quietly. "Yeh've got eye contact, now
try not ter blink.... Hippogriffs don' trust yeh if yeh blink too
much...."

Harry's eyes immediately began to water, but he didn't shut thern.
Buckbeak had turned his great, sharp head and was staring at Harry with
one fierce orange eye. "Tha's it," said Hagrid. "Tha's it, Harry... now,
bow."

Harry didn't feel much like exposing the back of his neck to Buckbeak,
but he did as he was told. He gave a short bow and then looked up.

The hippogriff was still staring haughtily at him. It didn't move.

"Ah," said Hagrid, sounding worried. "Right -- back away, now, Harry,
easy does it

But then, to Harry's enormous surprise, the hippogriff suddenly bent its
scaly front knees and sank into what was an unmistakable bow.

"Well done, Harry!" said Hagrid, ecstatic. "Right -- yeh can touch him!
Pat his beak, go on!"

Feeling that a better reward would have been to back away, Harry moved
slowly toward the hippogriff and reached out toward it. He patted the
beak several times and the hippogriff closed its eyes lazily, as though
enjoying it.

The class broke into applause, all except for Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle,
who were looking deeply disappointed.

"Righ' then, Harry," said Hagrid. "I reckon he might' let yeh ride him!"

This was more than Harry had bargained for. He was used to a broomstick;
but he wasn't sure a hippogriff would be quite the same.

"Yeh climb up there, jus' behind the wing joint," said Hagrid, "an' mind
yeh don' pull any of his feathers out, he won' like that...."

Harry put his foot on the top of Buckbeaks wing and hoisted himself onto
its back. Buckbeak stood up. Harry wasn't sure where to hold on;
everything in front of him was covered with feathers.

"Go on, then'" roared Hagrid, slapping the hippogriffs hindquarters.

Without warning, twelve-foot wings flapped open on either side of Harry,
he just had time to seize the hippogriff around the neck before he was
soaring upward. It was nothing like a broomstick, and Harry knew which
one he preferred; the hippogriff's wings beat uncomfortably on either
side of him, catching him under his legs and making him feel he was
about to be thrown off; the glossy feathers slipped under his fingers
and he didn't dare get a stronger grip; instead of the smooth action of
his Nimbus Two Thousand, he now felt himself rocking backward and
forward as the hindquarters of the hippogriff rose and fell with its
wings.

Buckbeak flew him once around the paddock and then headed back to the
ground; this was the bit Harry had been dreading; he leaned back as the
smooth neck lowered, feeling he was going to slip off over the beak,
then felt a heavy thud as the four ill-assorted feet hit the ground. He
just managed to hold on and push himself straight again.

"Good work, Harry!" roared Hagrid as everyone except Malfoy, Crabbe, and
Goyle cheered. "Okay, who else wants a go?"

Emboldened by Harry's success, the rest of the class climbed cautiously
into the paddock. Hagrid untied the hippogriffs one by one, and soon
people were bowing nervously, all over the paddock. Neville ran
repeatedly backward from his, which didn't seem to want to bend its
knees. Ron and Hermione practiced on the chestnut, while Harry watched.

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had taken over Buckbeak. He had bowed to
Malfoy, who was now patting his beak, looking disdainful.

"This is very easy," Malfoy drawled, loud enough for Harry to, hear him.
"I knew it must have been, if Potter could do it.... I bet you're not
dangerous at all, are you?" he said to the hippogriff. "Are you, you
great ugly brute?"

It happened in a flash of steely talons; Malfoy let out a highpitched
scream and next moment, Hagrid was wrestling Buckbeak back into his
collar as he strained to get at Malfoy, who lay curled in the grass,
blood blossoming over his robes.

"I'm dying!" Malfoy yelled as the class panicked. "I'm dying, look at
me! It's killed me!"

"Yer not dyin'!" said Hagrid, who had gone very white. "Someone help me
-- gotta get him outta here --"

Hermione ran to hold open the gate as Hagrid lifted Malfoy easily. As
they passed, Harry saw that there was a long, deep gash on Malfoy's arm;
blood splattered the grass and Hagrid ran with him, up the slope toward
the castle.

Very shaken, the Care of Magical Creatures class followed at a walk. The
Slytherins were all shouting about Hagrid.

"They should fire him straight away!" said Pansy Parkinson, who was in
tears.

"It was Malfoy's fault!" snapped Dean Thomas. Crabbe and Goyle flexed
their muscles threateningly.

They all climbed the stone steps into the deserted entrance hall.

"I'm going to see if he's okay!" said Pansy, and they all watched her
run up the marble staircase. The Slytherins, still muttering about
Hagrid, headed away in the direction of their dungeon common room;
Harry, Ron, and Hermione proceeded upstairs to Gryffindor Tower.

"You think he'll be all right?" said Hermione nervously.

"Course he will. Madam Pomfrey can mend cuts in about a second," said
Harry, who had had far worse injuries mended magically by the nurse.

"That was a really bad thing to happen in Hagrid's first class, though,
wasn't it?" said Ron, looking worried. "Trust Malfoy to mess things up
for him...."

They were among the first to reach the Great Hall at dinnertime, hoping
to see Hagrid, but he wasn't there.

"They wouldn't fire him, would they?" said Hermione anxiously, not
touching her steak-and- kidney pudding.

"They'd better not," said Ron, who wasn't eating either.

Harry was watching the Slytherin table. A large group including Crabbe
and Goyle was huddled together, deep in conversation. Harry was sure
they were cooking up their own version of how Malfoy had been injured.

"Well, you can't say it wasn't an interesting first day back," said Ron
gloomily.

They went up to the crowded Gryffindor common room after dinner and
tried to do the homework Professor McGonagall had given them, but all
three of them kept breaking off and glancing Out of the tower window.

"There's a light on in Hagrid's window," Harry said suddenly.

Ron looked at his watch.

"If we hurried, we could go down and see him. It's still quite early..."

I don't know," Hermione said slowly, and Harry saw her glance at him.

"I'm allowed to walk across the grounds, " he said Pointedly. "Sirius
Black hasn't got past the dementors yet, has he?"

So they put their things away and headed out of the portrait hole, glad
to meet nobody on their way to the front doors, as they weren't entirely
sure they were supposed to be out.

The grass was still wet and looked almost black in the twilight. When
they reached Hagrid's hut, they knocked, and a voice growled, "C'min."

Hagrid was sitting in his shirtsleeves at his scrubbed wooden table; his
boarhound, Fang, had his head in Hagrid's lap. One look told them that
Hagrid had been drinking a lot; there was a pewter tankard almost as big
as a bucket in front of him, and he seemed to be having difficulty
getting them into focus.

"'Spect it's a record," he said thickly, when he recognized them. "Don'
reckon they've ever had a teacher who lasted on'y a day before."

"You haven't been fired, Hagrid!" gasped Hermione.

"Not yet," said Hagrid miserably, taking a huge gulp of whatever was in
the tankard. "But's only a matter o' time, i' n't it, after Malfoy..."

"How is he?" said Ron as they all sat down. "It wasn't serious, was it?"

"Madam Pomfrey fixed him best she could," said Hagrid dully, "but he's
sayin' it's still agony... covered in bandages... moanin'..

"He's faking it, " said Harry at once. "Madam Pomfrey can mend anything.
She regrew half my bones last year. Trust Malfoy to milk it for all it's
worth."

"School gov'nors have bin told, o' course," said Hagrid miseribly. "They
reckon I started too big. Shoulda left hippogriffs fer later... done
flobberworms or summat.... Jus' thought itdmake a good firs' lessons all
my fault...."

"It's all Malfoy's fault, Hagrid!" said Hermione earnestly.

"We're witnesses," said Harry. "You said hippogriffs attack if you
insult them. It's Malfoy's problem that he wasn't listening. We'll tell
Dumbledore what really happened."

"Yeah, don't worry, Hagrid, we'll back you up," said Ron.

Tears leaked out of the crinkled corners of Hagrid's beetle-black eyes.
He grabbed both Harry and Ron and pulled them into a bone-breaking hug.

"I think you've had enough to drink, Hagrid," said Hermione firmly. She
took the tankard from the table and went outside to empty it.

"At, maybe she's right," said Hagrid, letting go of Harry and Ron, who
both staggered away, rubbing their ribs. Hagrid heaved himself out of
his chair and followed Hermione unsteadily outside. They heard a loud
splash.

"What's he done?" said Harry nervously as Hermione came back in with the
empty tankard.

"Stuck his head in the water barrel," said Hermione, putting the tankard
away.

Hagrid came back, his long hair and beard sopping wet, wiping the water
out of his eyes.

"That's better," he said, shaking his head like a dog and drenching them
all. "Listen, it was good of yeh ter come an' see me, I really --

Hagrid stopped dead, staring at Harry as though he'd only just realized
he was there.

"WHAT D'YEH THINK YOU'RE DOIN', EH?" he roared, so suddenly that they
jumped a foot in the air. "YEH'RE NOT TO GO WANDERIN' AROUND AFTER DARK,
HARRY! AN, YOU TWO! LETTIN' HIM!"

Hagrid strode over to Harry, grabbed his arm, and pulled him to the
door.

"C'mon!" Hagrid said angrily. "I'm takin' yer all back up ter school,
an' don' let me catch yeh walkin' down ter see me after dark again. I'm
not worth that!"

CHAPTER SEVEN

THE BOGGART IN THE WARDROBE

Malfoy didn't reappear in classes until late on Thursday morning, when
the Slytherins and Gryffindors were halfway through double Potions. He
swaggered into the dungeon, his right arm covered in bandages and bound
up in a sling, acting, in Harry's opinion, as though he were the heroic
survivor of some dreadful battle.

"How is it, Draco?" simpered Pansy Parkinson. "Does it hurt much?"

"Yeah," said Malfoy, putting on a brave sort of grimace. But Harry saw
him wink at Crabbe and Goyle when Pansy had looked away.

"Settle down, settle down," said Professor Snape idly.

Harry and Ron scowled at each other; Snape wouldn't have said "settle
down" if they'd walked in late, he'd have given them detention. But
Malfoy had always been able to get away with anything in Snape's
classes; Snape was head of Slytherin House, and generality favored his
own students above all others.

They were making a new potion today, a Shrinking Solution. Malfoy set up
his cauldron right next to Harry and Ron, so that they were preparing
their ingredients on the same table.

"Sir," Malfoy called, "sir, I'll need help cutting up these daisy roots,
because of my arm --"

"Weasley, cut up Malfoy's roots for him," said Snape without looking up.

Ron went brick red.

"There's nothing wrong with your arm," he hissed at Malfoy.

Malfoy smirked across the table.

"Weasley, you heard Professor Snape; cut up these roots."

Ron seized his knife, pulled Malfoy's roots toward him, and began to
chop them roughly, so that they were all different sizes.

"Professor," drawled Malfoy, "Weasley's mutilating my roots, sit."

Snape approached their table, stared down his hooked nose at the roots,
then gave Ron an unpleasant smile from beneath his long, greasy black
hair.

"Change roots with Malfoy, Weasley."

"But, sit --!"

Ron had spent the last quarter of an hour carefully shredding his own
roots into exactly equal pieces.

"Now," said Snape in his most dangerous voice.

Ron shoved his own beautifully cut roots across the table a, Malfoy,
then took up the knife again.

"And, sir, I'll need this shrivelfig skinned," said Malfoy, his voice
full of malicious laughter.

"Potter, you can skin Malfoy's shrivelfig," said Snape, giving Harry the
look of loathing he always reserved just for him.

Harry took Malfoy's shrivelfig as Ron began trying to repair the damage
to the roots he now had to use. Harry skinned the shrivelfig as fast as
he could and flung it back across the table at Malfoy without speaking.
Malfoy was smirking more broadly than ever.

"Seen your pal Hagrid lately?" he asked them quietly.

"None of your business," said Ron jerkily, without looking up.

"I'm afraid he won't be a teacher much longer," said Malfoy in a tone of
mock sorrow. "Father's not very happy about my injury --"

"Keep talking, Malfoy, and I'll give you a real injury," snarled Ron.

"- he's complained to the school governors. And to the Ministry of
Magic. Father's got a lot of influence, you know. And a lasting injury
like this" -- he gave a huge, fake sigh -- "who knows if my arm'll ever
be the same again?"

"So that's why you're putting it on," said Harry, accidentally beheading
a dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger. "To try to get
Hagrid fired."

"Well," said Malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, "partly, Potter.
But there are other benefits too. Weasley, slice my caterpillars for
me."

A few cauldrons away, Neville was in trouble. Neville regularly went to
pieces in Potions lessons; it was his worst subject, and his great fear
of Professor Snape made things ten times worse. His potion, which was
supposed to be a bright, acid green, had turned --

"Orange, Longbottom," said Snape, ladling some up and allowing to splash
back into the cauldron, so that everyone could see.

"Orange. Tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of
yours? Didn't you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one -tat spleen
was needed? Didn't I state plainly that a dash of leech juice would
suffice? What do I have to do to make you understand, Longbottom?"

Neville was pink and trembling. He looked as though he was on the verge
of tears.

"Please, sir," said Hermione, "please, I could help Neville put it right
--"

"I don't remember asking you to show off, Miss Granger," said Snape
coldly, and Hermione went as pink as Neville. "Longbottom, at the end of
this lesson we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see
what happens. Perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly."

Snape moved away, leaving Neville breathless with fear.

"Help me!" he moaned to Hermione.

"Hey, Harry," said Seamus Finnigan, leaning over to borrow Harry's brass
scales, "have you heard? Daily Prophet this morning -- they reckon
Sirius Black's been sighted."

"Where?" said Harry and Ron quickly. On the other side of the table,
Malfoy looked up, listening closely.

"Not too far from here," said Seamus, who looked excited. "It was a
Muggle who saw him. 'Course, she didn't really understand. The Muggles
think he's just an ordinary criminal, don't they? So she phoned the
telephone hot line. By the time the Ministry of Magic got there, he was
gone."

"Not too far from here... " Ron repeated, looking significantly at
Harry. He turned around and saw Malfoy watching closely. "What, Malfoy?
Need something else skinned?"

But Malfoy's eyes were shining malevolently, and they were fixed Harry.
He leaned across the table.

Black single-handed, Potter?"

"Thinking Of trying to catch

"Yeah, that's right," said Harry offhandedly.

Malfoys thin mouth was curving in a mean smile.

"Of course, if it was me," he said quietly, "I'd have done something
before now. I wouldn't be staying in school like a good boy, I'd be out
there looking for him."

"What are you talking about, Malfoy?" said Ron roughly.

"Don't you know, Potter?" breathed Malfoy, his pate eyes narrowed.

"Know what?"

Malfoy let out a low, sneering laugh.

"Maybe you'd rather not risk your neck," he said. "Want to leave it to
the dementors, do you? But if it was me, I'd want revenge. I'd hunt him
down myself."

"What are you talking about?" said Harry angrily, but at that moment
Snape called, "You should have finished adding your ingredients by now;
this potion needs to stew before it can be drunk, so clear away while it
simmers and then we'll test Longbottom's... "

Crabbe and Goyle laughed openly, watching Neville sweat as he stirred
his potion feverishly. Hermione was muttering instructions to him out of
the corner of her mouth, so that Snape wouldn't see. Harry and Ron
packed away their unused ingredients and went to wash their hands and
ladles in the stone basin in the corner.

"What did Malfoy mean?" Harry muttered to Ron as he stuck his hands
under the icy jet that poured from the gargoyle's mouth "Why would I
want revenge on Black? He hasn't done anything to me -- yet.

"He's making it up," said Ron savagely. "He's trying to make you do
something stupid...."

The end of the lesson in sight, Snape strode over to Neville, who was
cowering by his cauldron.

"Everyone gather 'round," said Snape, his black eyes glittering, and
watch what happens to Longbottom's toad. If he has managed to produce a
Shrinking Solution, it will shrink to a tadpole. If, as I don't doubt,
he has done it wrong, his toad is likely to be poisoned."

The Gryffindors watched fearfully. The Slytherins looked excited. Snape
picked up Trevor the toad in his left hand and dipped a small spoon into
Neville's potion, which was now green. He trickled a few drops down
Trevor's throat.

There was a moment of hushed silence, in which Trevor gulped; then there
was a small pop, and Trevor the tadpole was wriggling in Snape's palm.

The Gryffindors burst into applause. Snape, looking sour, pulled a small
bottle from the pocket of his robe, poured a few drops on top of Trevor,
and he reappeared suddenly, fully grown.

"Five points from Gryffindor," said Snape, which wiped the smiles from
every face. "I told you not to help him, Miss Granger. Class dismissed."

Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the steps to the entrance hall. Harry
was still thinking about what Malfoy had said, while Ron was seething
about Snape.

"Five points from Gryffindor because the potion was all right!

Why didn't You lie, Hermione? You should've said Neville did it all by
himself!"

Hermione didn't answer. Ron looked around.

"Where is she?"

Harry turned too. They were at the top of the steps now, watching the
rest of the class pass them, heading for the Great Hall and lunch.

"She was right behind us," said Ron, frowning.

Malfoy passed them, walking between Crabbe and Goyle. He smirked at
Harry and disappeared.

"There she is," said Harry.

Hermione was panting slightly, hurrying up the stairs; one hand clutched
her bag, the other seemed to be tucking something down the front of her
robes.

"How did you do that?" said Ron.

"What?" said Hermione, joining them.

"One minute you were right behind us, the next moment, you were back at
the bottom of the stairs again."

"What?" Hermione looked slightly confused. "Oh -- I had to go back for
something. Oh no --"

A seam had split on Hermione's bag. Harry wasn't surprised; he could see
that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books.

"Why are you carrying all these around with you?" Ron asked her.

"You know how many subjects I'm taking," said Hermione breathlessly.
"Couldn't hold these for me, could you?"

"But --" Ron was turning over the books she had handed him, looking at
the covers. "You havent got any of these subjects today. It's only
Defense Against the Dark Arts this afternoon."

"Oh yes," said Hermione vaguely, but she packed all the books back into
her bag just the same. I hope there's something good for lunch, I'm
starving," she added, and she marched off toward the Great Hall.

"D'you get the feeling Hermione's not telling us something?Ron asked
Harry.

Professor Lupin wasn't there when they arrived at his first Defense
Against the Dark Arts lesson. They all sat down, took out their books,
quills, and parchment, and were talking when he finally entered the
room. Lupin smiled vaguely and placed his tatty old briefcase on the
teacher's desk. He was as shabby as ever but looked healthier than he
had on the train, as though he had had a few square meals.

"Good afternoon," he said. "Would you please put all your books back in
your bags. Today's will be a practical lesson. You will need only your
wands."

A few curious looks were exchanged as the class put away their books.
They had never had a practical Defense Against the Dark Arts before,
unless you counted the memorable class last year when their old teacher
had brought a cageful of pixies -to class and set them loose.

"Right then," said Professor Lupin, when everyone was ready. "If you'd
follow me."

Puzzled but interested, the class got to its feet and followed Professor
Lupin out of the classroom. He led them along the deserted corridor and
around a corner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the
Poltergeist, who was floating upside down in midair and stuffing the
nearest keyhole with chewing gum.

Peeves didn't look up until Professor Lupin was two feet away; ,hen he
wiggled his curly-toed feet and broke into song.

"Loony, loopy Lupin," Peeves sang. "Loony, loopy Lupin, loony, loopy
Lupin --"

Rude and unmanageable as he almost always was, Peeves usually showed
some respect toward the teachers. Everyone looked quickly at Professor
Lupin to see how he would take this; to their surprise, he was still
smiling.

"I'd take that gum out of the keyhole if I were you, Peeves," he said
pleasantly. "Mr. Filch won't be able to get in to his brooms."

Filch was the Hogwarts caretaker, a bad-tempered, failed wizard who
waged a constant war against the students and, indeed, Peeves. However,
Peeves paid no attention to Professor Lupin's words, except to blow a
loud wet raspberry.

Professor Lupin gave a small sigh and took out his wand.

"This is a useful little spell, he told the class over his shoulder.
"Please watch closely."

He raised the wand to shoulder height, said, "Waddiwasi! "and pointed it
at Peeves.

With the force of a bullet, the wad of chewing gum shot out of the
keyhole and straight down Peeves's left nostril; he whirled upright and
zoomed away, cursing.

"Cool, sit!" said Dean Thomas in amazement.

"Thank you, Dean," said Professor Lupin, putting his wand away again.
"Shall we proceed?"

They set off again, the class looking at shabby Professor Lupin with
increased respect. He led them down a second corridor and stopped, right
outside the staffroom door.

"Inside, please," said Professor Lupin, opening it and standing back.

The staffroom, a long, paneled room full of old, mismatched chairs, was
empty except for one teacher. Professor Snape was sitting in a low
armchair, and he looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were
glittering and there was a nasty sneer playing around his mouth. As
Professor Lupin came in and made to close the door behind him, Snape
said, "Leave it open, Lupin. I'd rather not witness this."

He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes billowing
behind him. At the doorway he turned on his heel and said, "Possibly no
one's warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I
would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless
Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."

Neville went scarlet. Harry glared at Snape; it was bad enough that he
bullied Neville in his own classes, let alone doing it in front of other
teachers.

Professor Lupin had raised his eyebrows.

"I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the
operation," he said, "and I am sure he will perform it admirably."

Neville's face went, if possible, even redder. Snape's lip curled, but
he left, shutting the door with a snap.

"Now, then," said Professor Lupin, beckoning the class toward the end of
the room, where there was nothing but an old wardrobe where the teachers
kept their spare robes. As Professor Lupin went to stand next to it, the
wardrobe gave a sudden wobble, banging off the wall.

"Nothing to worry about," said Professor Lupin calmly because a few
people had jumped backward in alarm. "There's a boggart in there."

Most people seemed to feel that this was something to worry about.
Neville gave Professor Lupin a look of pure terror, and Seamus Finnigan
eyed the now rattling doorknob apprehensively.

"Boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces," said Professor Lupin. "Wardrobes,
the gap beneath beds, the cupboards under sinks -- I've even met one
that had lodged itself in a grandfather clock. This one moved in
yesterday afternoon, and I asked the headmaster if the staff would leave
it to give my third years some practice.

"So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?"

Hermione put up her hand.

"It's a shape-shifter," she said. "It can take the shape of whatever it
thinks will frighten us most."

"Couldn't have put it better myself," said Professor Lupin, and Hermione
glowed. "So the boggart sitting in the darkness within has not yet
assumed a form. He does not yet know what will frighten the person on
the other side of the door. Nobody knows what a boggart looks like when
he is alone, but when I let him out, he will immediately become whatever
each of us most fears.

"This means," said Professor Lupin, choosing to ignore Neville's 'mall
sputter of terror, "that we have a huge advantage over the boggart
before we begin. Have you spotted it, Harry?"

Trying to answer a question with Hermione next to him, bobbing up and
down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very
off-putting, but Harry had a go.

"Er -- because there are so many of us, it won't know what shape it
should be?"

"Precisely," said Professor Lupin, and Hermione put her hand down,
looking a little disappointed. "It's always best to have com pany when
you're dealing with a boggart. He becomes confused. Which should he
become, a headless corpse or a flesh-eating slug? I once saw a boggart
make that very mistake -- tried to frighten two people at once and
turned himself into half a slug. Not remotely frightening.

"The charm that repels a boggart is simple, yet it requires force of
mind. You see, the thing that really finishes a boggart is laughter.
What you need to do is force it to assume a shape that you find amusing.

"We will practice the charm without wands first. After me, please ...
Riddikulus!"

"Riddikulus!" said the class together.

"Good," said Professor Lupin. "Very good. But that was the easy part,
I'm afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you
come in, Neville."

The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville, who walked
forward as though he were heading for the gallows.

"Right, Neville," said Professor Lupin. "First things first: what would
you say is the thing that frightens you most in the world?"

Neville's lips moved, but no noise came out.

"didn't catch that, Neville, sorry," said Professor Lupin cheerfully.

Neville looked around rather wildly, as though begging someone to help
him, then said, in barely more than a whisper, "Professor Snape."

Nearly everyone laughed. Even Neville grinned apologetically. Professor
Lupin, however, looked thoughtful.

"Professor Snape... hmmm... Neville, I believe you live with your
grandmother?"

"Er -- yes," said Neville nervously. "But -- I don't want the boggart to
turn into her either."

"No, no, you misunderstand me," said Professor Lupin, now smiling. "I
wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually
wears?"

Neville looked startled, but said, "Well... always the same hat. A tall
one with a stuffed vulture on top. And a long dress... green,
normally... and sometimes a fox-fur scarf."

"And a handbag?" prompted Professor Lupin.

"A big red one," said Neville.

"Right then," said Professor Lupin. "Can you picture those clothes very
clearly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind's eye?"

"Yes," said Neville uncertainty, plainly wondering what was coming next.

"When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees You, it
will assume the form of Professor Snape," said Lupin. "And You will
raise your wand -- thus -- and cry 'Riddikulus' -- and concentrate hard
on your grandmother's clothes. If all goes well, Professor Boggart Snape
will be forced into that vulture-topped hat, and that green dress, with
that big red handbag."

There was a great shout of laughter. The wardrobe wobbled more
violently.

"If Neville is successful, the boggart is likely to shift his attention
to each of us in turn," said Professor Lupin. "I would like all of you
to take a moment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and
imagine how you might force it to look comical...."

The room went quiet. Harry thought... 'What scared him most in the
world?

His first thought was Lord Voldemort -- a Voldemort returned to full
strength. But before he had even started to plan a possible
counterattack on a boggart-Voldemort, a horrible image came floating to
the surface of his mind....

A rotting, glistening hand, slithering back beneath a black cloak ... a
long, rattling breath from an unseen mouth... then a cold so penetrating
it felt like drowning....

Harry shivered, then looked around, hoping no one had noticed. Many
people had their eyes shut tight. Ron was muttering to himself, "Take
its legs off " Harry was sure he knew what that was about. Ron's
greatest fear was spiders.

"Everyone ready?" said Professor Lupin.

Harry felt a lurch of fear. He wasn't ready. How could you make a