Harry let himself float back upward and broke the bubbly surface, shaking his hair out of his eyes.
"Hear it?" said Myrtle.
"Yeah ... 'Come seek us where our voices sound .. .' and if I need persuading ... hang on, I need to listen again...."
He sank back beneath the water.  It took three more underwater renditions of the egg's song before Harry had it memorized; then he trod water for a while, thinking hard, while Myrtle sat and watched him.
"I've got to go and look for people who can't use their voices above the ground. . . ." he said slowly. "Er . . . who could that be?"
"Slow, aren't you?"
He had never seen Moaning Myrtle so cheerful, apart from the day when a dose of PolyJuice Potion had given Hermione the hairy face and tail of a cat.  Harry stared around the bathroom, thinking ... if the voices could only be heard underwater, then it made sense for them to belong to underwater creatures.  He ran this theory past Myrtle, who smirked at him.
"Well, thats what Diggory thought," she said. "He lay there talking to himself for ages about it.  Ages and ages . . . nearly all the bubbles had gone. ..."
"Underwater ..." Harry said slowly. "Myrtle . . . what lives in the lake, apart from the giant squid?"
"Oh all sorts," she said. "I sometimes go down there . . . sometimes don't have any choice, if someone flushes my toilet when I'm not expecting it...."
Trying not to think about Moaning Myrtle zooming down a pipe to the lake with the contents of a toilet.  Harry said, "Well, does anything in there have a human voice?  Hang on -"
Harry's eyes had fallen on the picture of the snoozing mermaid on the wall.
"Myrtle, there aren't merpeople in there, are there?"
"Oooh, very good," she said, her thick glasses twinkling, "it took Diggory much longer than that!  And that was with her awake too" - Myrtle jerked her head toward the mermaid with an expression of great dislike on her glum face - "giggling and showing off and flashing her fins.. .."
"Thats it, isn't it?"  said Harry excitedly.  "The second tasks to go and find the merpeople in the lake and ... and ..."
But he suddenly realized what he was saying, and he felt the excitement drain out of him as though someone had just pulled a plug in his stomach.  He wasn't a very good swimmer; he'd never had much practice.  Dudley had had lessons in his youth, but Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon, no doubt hoping that Harry would drown one day, hadn't bothered to give him any.  A couple of lengths of this bath were all very well, but that lake was very large, and very deep . . . and merpeople would surely live right at the bottom. . . .
"Myrtle," Harry said slowly, "how am I supposed to breathe?"
At this, Myrtle's eyes filled with sudden tears again.
"Tactless!" she muttered, groping in her robes for a handkerchief.
"What's tactless?" said Harry, bewildered.
"Talking about breathing in front of me!"  she said shrilly, and her voice echoed loudly around the bathroom.  "When I can't. . . when I haven't. . . not for ages ..."
She buried her face in her handkerchief and sniffed loudly.  Harry remembered how touchy Myrtle had always been about being dead, but none of the other ghosts he knew made such a fuss about it.
"Sorry," he said impatiently. "I didn't mean - I just forgot. . ."
"Oh yes, very easy to forget Myrtle's dead," said Myrtle, gulping, looking at him out of swollen eyes.  "Nobody missed me even when I was alive.  Took them hours and hours to find my body - I know, I was sitting there waiting for them.  Olive Hornby came into the bathroom - Are you in here again, sulking, Myrtle?'  she said, 'because Professor Dippet asked me to look for you -' And then she saw my body . . . ooooh, she didn't forget it until her dying day, I made sure of that... followed her around and reminded her, I did. I remember at her brother's wedding -"
But Harry wasn't listening; he was thinking about the merpeople's song again.  "We've taken what you II sorely miss."  That sounded as though they were going to steal something of his, something he had to get back.  What were they going to take?
"--and then, of course, she went to the Ministry of Magic to stop me stalking her, so I had to come back here and live in my toilet."
"Good," said Harry vaguely.  "Well, I'm a lot further on than I was. . . . Shut your eyes again, will you?  I'm getting out."
He retrieved the egg from the bottom of the bath, climbed out, dried himself, and pulled on his pajamas and dressing gown again.
"Will you come and visit me in my bathroom again sometime?"  Moaning Myrtle asked mournfully as Harry picked up the Invisibility Cloak.
"Er . . . I'll try," Harry said, though privately thinking the only way he'd be visiting Myrtle's bathroom again was if every other toilet in the castle got blocked.  "See you.  Myrtle... thanks for your help."
"Bye, 'bye," she said gloomily, and as Harry put on the Invisibllity Cloak he saw her zoom back up the tap.
Out in the dark corridor, Harry examined the Marauders Map to check that the coast was still clear.  Yes, the dots belonging to Filch and his cat, Mrs. Norris, were safely in their office . .. nothing else seemed to be moving apart from Peeves, though he was bouncing around the trophy room on the floor above. ... Harry had taken his first step back toward Gryffindor Tower when something else on the map caught his eye . . . something distinctly odd.
Peeves was not the only thing that was moving.  A single dot was flitting around a room in the bottom left-hand corner - Snapes office.  But the dot wasn't labeled "Severus Snape" ... it was Bartemius Crouch.
Harry stared at the dot. Mr. Crouch was supposed to be too ill to go to work or to come to the Yule Ball - so what was he doing, sneaking into Hogwarts at one o'clock in the morning?  Harry watched closely as the dot moved around and around the room, pausing here and there. ...
Harry hesitated, thinking . . . and then his curiosity got the better of him.  He turned and set off in the opposite direction toward the nearest staircase.  He was going to see what Crouch was up to.
Harry walked down the stairs as quietly as possible, though the faces in some of the portraits still turned curiously at the squeak of a floorboard, the rustle of his pajamas.  He crept along the corridor below, pushed aside a tapestry about halfway along, and proceeded down a narrower staircase, a shortcut that would take him down two floors.  He kept glancing down at the map, wondering ... It just didn't seem in character, somehow, for correct, law-abiding Mr. Crouch to be sneaking around somebody else's office this late at night....
And then, halfway down the staircase, not thinking about what he was doing, not concentrating on anything but the peculiar behavior of Mr. Crouch, Harrys leg suddenly sank right through the trick step Neville always forgot to jump.  He gave an ungainly wobble, and the golden egg, still damp from the bath, slipped from under his arm. He lurched forward to try and catch it, but too late; the egg fell down the long staircase with a bang as loud as a bass drum on every step - the Invisibility Cloak slipped - Harry snatched at it, and the Marauder s Map fluttered out of his hand and slid down six stairs, where, sunk in the step to above his knee, he couldn't reach it.
The golden egg fell through the tapestry at the bottom of the staircase, burst open, and began wailing loudly in the corridor below.  Harry pulled out his wand and struggled to touch the Marauder s Map, to wipe it blank, but it was too far away to reach -
Pulling the cloak back over himself Harry straightened up, listening hard with his eyes screwed up with fear. . . and, almost immediately -
"PEEVES!"
It was the unmistakable hunting cry of Filch the caretaker.  Harry could hear his rapid, shuffling footsteps coming nearer and nearer, his wheezy voice raised in fury.
"What's this racket?  Wake up the whole castle, will you?  I'll have you, Peeves, I'll have you, you'll... and what is this?"
Filch's footsteps halted; there was a clink of metal on metal and the wailing stopped - Filch had picked up the egg and closed it.  Harry stood very still, one leg still Jammed tightly in the magical step, listening.  Any moment now, Filch was going to pull aside the tapestry, expecting to see Peeves . . . and there would be no Peeves ... but if he came up the stairs, he would spot the Marauder's Map . . . and Invisibility Cloak or not, the map would show  "Harry Potter" standing exactly where he was.
"Egg?"  Filch said quietly at the foot of the stairs.  "My sweet!" - Mrs. Norris was obviously with him - "This is a Triwizard clue!  This belongs to a school champion!"
Harry felt sick; his heart was hammering very fast -
"PEEVES!"  Filch roared gleefully.  "You've been stealing!"
He ripped back the tapestry below, and Harry saw his horrible, pouchy face and bulging, pale eyes staring up the dark and (to Filch) deserted staircase.
"Hiding, are you?"  he said softly.  "I'm coming to get you, Peeves. . . . You've gone and stolen a Triwizard clue, Peeves... . Dumbledore'll have you out of here for this, you filthy, pilfering poltergeist. ..."
Filch started to climb the stairs, his scrawny, dust-colored cat at his heels.  Mrs. Morris's lamp-like eyes, so very like her masters, were fixed directly upon Harry.  He had had occasion before now to wonder whether the Invisibility Cloak worked on cats. . . . Sick with apprehension, he watched Filch drawing nearer and nearer in his old flannel dressing gown - he tried desperately to pull his trapped leg free, but it merely sank a few more inches - any second now, Filch was going to spot the map or walk right into him -
"Filch? Whats going on?"
Filch stopped a few steps below Harry and turned.  At the foot of the stairs stood the only person who could make Harry's situation worse:  Snape.  He was wearing a long gray nightshirt and he looked livid.
"Its Peeves, Professor," Filch whispered malevolently.  "He threw this egg down the stairs."
Snape climbed up the stairs quickly and stopped beside Filch.  Harry gritted his teeth, convinced his loudly thumping heart would give him away at any second. . . .
"Peeves?" said Snape softly, staring at the egg in Filch's hands.  "But Peeves couldn't get into my office. . . ."
"This egg was in your office. Professor?"
"Of course not," Snape snapped.  "I heard banging and wailing -"
"Yes, Professor, that was the egg -" 
"- I was coming to investigate -" 
"- Peeves threw it. Professor -"
"- and when I passed my office, I saw that the torches were lit and a cupboard door was ajar!  Somebody has been searching it!"
But Peeves couldn't -" 
"I know he couldn't, Filch!" Snape snapped again. "I seal my office with a spell none but a wizard could break!"  Snape looked up the stairs, straight through Harry, and then down into the corridor below.  "I want you to come and help me search for the intruder, Filch."
"I - yes, Professor - but -"
Filch looked yearningly up the stairs, right through Harry, who could see that he was very reluctant to forgo the chance of cornering Peeves.  Go, Harry pleaded with him silently, go with Snape . . . go. . . Mrs. Norris was peering around Filch's legs.... Harry had the distinct impression that she could smell him.. . . Why had he filled that bath with so much perfumed foam?
"The thing is, Professor," said Filch plaintively, "the headmaster will have to listen to me this time.  Peeves has been stealing from a student, it might be my chance to get him thrown out of the castle once and for all -"
"Filch, I don't give a damn about that wretched poltergeist; it's my office that's -"
Clunk. Clunk. Clunk.
Snape stopped talking very abruptly.  He and Filch both looked down at the foot of the stairs.  Harry saw Mad-Eye Moody limp into sight through the narrow gap between their heads. Moody was wearing his old traveling cloak over his nightshirt and leaning on his staff as usual.
"Pajama party, is it?"  he growled up the stairs.
"Professor Snape and I heard noises, Professor," said Filch at once.  "Peeves the Poltergeist, throwing things around as usual - and then Professor Snape discovered that someone had broken into his off -"
"Shut up!"  Snape hissed to Filch.
Moody took a step closer to the foot of the stairs.  Harry saw Moodys magical eye travel over Snape, and then, unmistakably, onto himself.
Harrys heart gave a horrible jolt. Moody could see through Invisibility Cloaks... he alone could see the full strangeness of the scene:
Snape in his nightshirt, Filch clutching the egg, and he, Harry, trapped in the stairs behind them.  Moody's lopsided gash of a mouth opened in surprise.  For a few seconds, he and Harry stared straight into each other's eyes.  Then Moody closed his mouth and turned his blue eye upon Snape again.  
"Did I hear that correctly, Snape?" he asked slowly. "Someone broke into your office?"
"It is unimportant," said Snape coldly.  "On the contrary," growled Moody, "it is very important.  Who'd want to break into your office?"
"A student, I daresay," said Snape.  Harry could see a vein flickering horribly on Snape's greasy temple.  "It has happened before.  Potion ingredients have gone missing from my private store cupboard ... students attempting illicit mixtures, no doubt...."
"Reckon they were after potion ingredients, eh?" said Moody.  "Not hiding anything else in your office, are you?"
Harry saw the edge of Snapes sallow face turn a nasty brick color, the vein in his temple pulsing more rapidly.
"You know I'm hiding nothing, Moody," he said in a soft and dangerous voice, "as you've searched my office pretty thoroughly yourself."
Moodys face twisted into a smile. "Auror's privilege, Snape. Dumbledore told me to keep an eye -"
"Dumbledore happens to trust me," said Snape through clenched teeth.  "I refuse to believe that he gave you orders to search my office!"
"Course Dumbledore trusts you," growled Moody.  "Hes a trusting man, isn't he? Believes in second chances.  But me - I say there are spots that don't come off, Snape.  Spots that never come off, d'you know what I mean?"
Snape suddenly did something very strange.  He seized his left forearm convulsively with his right hand, as though something on it had hurt him.
Moody laughed. "Get back to bed, Snape."
"You don't have the authority to send me anywhere!"  Snape hissed, letting go of his arm as though angry with himself.  "I have as much right to prowl this school after dark as you do!"
"Prowl away," said Moody, but his voice was full of menace.  "I look forward to meeting you in a dark corridor some time.... You've dropped something, by the way. ..."
With a stab of horror. Harry saw Moody point at the Marauders Map, still lying on the staircase six steps below him.  As Snape and Filch both turned to look at it, Harry threw caution to the winds; he raised his arms under the cloak and waved furiously at Moody to attract his attention, mouthing "It's mine!  Mine!"
Snape had reached out for it, a horrible expression of dawning comprehension on his face -
"Accio Parchment!"
The map flew up into the air, slipped through Snapes outstretched fingers, and soared down the stairs into Moodys hand.
"My mistake," Moody said calmly.  "It's mine - must've dropped it earlier -"
But Snape's black eyes were darting from the egg in Filch's arms to the map in Moodys hand, and Harry could tell he was putting two and two together, as only Snape could. . . .
"Potter," he said quietly.
"What's that?" said Moody calmly, folding up the map and pocketing it.
"Potter!" Snape snarled, and he actually turned his head and stared right at the place where Harry was, as though he could suddenly see him.  "That egg is Potters egg.  That piece of parchment belongs to Potter.  I have seen it before, I recognize it!  Potter is here!  Potter, in his Invisibility Cloak!"
Snape stretched out his hands like a blind man and began to move up the stairs; Harry could have sworn his over-large nostrils were dilating, trying to sniff Harry out - trapped. Harry leaned backward, trying to avoid Snapes fingertips, but any moment now-
"There's nothing there, Snape!" barked Moody, "but I'll be happy to tell the headmaster how quickly your mind jumped to Harry Potter!"
"Meaning what?"  Snape turned again to look at Moody, his hands still outstretched, inches from Harry's chest.
"Meaning that Dumbledore's very interested to know who's got it in for that boy!" said Moody, limping nearer still to the foot of the stairs.  "And so am I, Snape . . . very interested...." The torchlight flickered across his mangled face, so that the scars, and the chunk missing from
his nose, looked deeper and darker than ever.
Snape was looking down at Moody, and Harry couldn't see the expression on his face. For a moment, nobody moved or said anything.  Then Snape slowly lowered his hands.
"I merely thought," said Snape, in a voice of forced calm, "that if Potter was wandering around after hours again ... it's an unfortunate habit of his ... he should be stopped.  For - for his own safety."
"Ah, I see," said Moody softly. "Got Potter's best interests at heart, have you?"
There was a pause.  Snape and Moody were still staring at each other, Mrs. Norris gave a loud meow, still peering around Filch's legs, looking for the source of Harry's bubble-bath smell.
"I think I will go back to bed," Snape said curtly.
"Best idea you've had all night," said Moody.  "Now, Filch, if you'll just give me that egg-"
"No!"  said Filch, clutching the egg as though it were his firstborn son.  "Professor Moody, this is evidence of Peeves' treachery!"
"It's the property of the champion he stole it from," said Moody.   Hand it over, now."
Snape swept downstairs and passed Moody without another word.  Filch made a chirruping noise to Mrs. Norris, who stared blankly at Harry for a few more seconds before turning and following her master.  Still breathing very fast.  Harry heard Snape walking away down the corridor; Filch handed Moody the egg and disappeared from view too, muttering to Mrs. Norris. "Never mind. my sweet.. . we'll see Dumbledore in the morning ... tell him what Peeves was up to...."
A door slammed.  Harry was left staring down at Moody, who placed his staff on the bottommost stair and started to climb laboriously toward him, a dull clunk on every other step.
"Close shave. Potter," he muttered. 
"Yeah ... I - er ... thanks," said Harry weakly.
"What is this thing?"  said Moody, drawing the Marauder's Map out of his pocket and unfolding it.
"Map of Hogwarts," said Harry, hoping Moody was going to pull him out of the staircase soon; his leg was really hurting him.
"Merlins beard," Moody whispered, staring at the map, his magical eye going haywire. "This . .. this is some map.  Potter!"
"Yeah, its . . . quite useful," Harry said. His eyes were starting to water from the pain. "Er - Professor Moody, d'you think you could help me - ?"
"What? Oh! Yes . . . yes, of course . .."
Moody took hold of Harrys arms and pulled; Harrys leg came free of the trick step, and he climbed onto the one above it.  Moody was still gazing at the map.
"Potter ..." he said slowly, "you didn't happen, by any chance, to see who broke into Snapes office, did you?  On this map, I mean?"
"Er . . . yeah, I did . . ." Harry admitted. "It was Mr. Crouch."
Moodys magical eye whizzed over the entire surface of the map.  He looked suddenly alarmed.
"Crouch?" he said.  "You're - you're sure. Potter?"
"Positive," said Harry.
"Well, he's not here anymore," said Moody, his eye still whizzing over the map.  "Crouch . .. that's very - very interesting... ."
He said nothing for almost a minute, still staring at the map.  Harry could tell that this news meant something to Moody and very much wanted to know what it was.  He wondered whether he dared ask.  Moody scared him slightly. . . yet Moody had just helped him avoid an awful lot of trouble. . . .
"Er ... Professor Moody . . . why d'you reckon Mr. Crouch wanted to look around Snapes office?"
Moodys magical eye left the map and fixed, quivering, upon Harry.  It was a penetrating glare, and Harry had the impression that Moody was sizing him up, wondering whether to answer or not, or how much to tell him.
"Put it this way. Potter," Moody muttered finally, "they say old Mad-Eye's obsessed with catching Dark wizards . . . but I'm nothing - nothing - compared to Barty Crouch."
He continued to stare at the map. Harry was burning to know more.
"Professor Moody?" he said again.  "D'you think... could this have anything to do with . . . maybe Mr. Crouch thinks there's something going on. ..."
"Like what?" said Moody sharply.
Harry wondered how much he dare say.  He didn't want Moody to guess that he had a source of information outside Hogwarts; that might lead to tricky questions about Sirius.
"I don't know," Harry muttered, "odd stuffs been happening lately, hasn't it?  It's been in the Daily Prophet... the Dark Mark at the World Cup, and the Death Eaters and everything...."
Both of Moody's mismatched eyes widened.
"You're a sharp boy. Potter," he said.  His magical eye roved back to the Marauder's Map.  "Crouch could be thinking along those lines," he said slowly.  "Very possible. . . there have been some funny rumors flying around lately - helped along by Rita Skeeter, of course.  It's making a lot of people nervous, I reckon."  A grim smile twisted his lopsided mouth.  "Oh if there's one thing I hate," he muttered, more to himself than to Harry, and his magical eye was fixed on the left-hand corner of the map, "its a Death Eater who walked free. ..."
Harry stared at him. Could Moody possibly mean what Harry thought he meant?
"And now I want to ask you a question. Potter," said Moody in a more businesslike tone.
Harrys heart sank; he had thought this was coming.  Moody was going to ask where he had got this map, which was a very dubious magical object - and the story of how it had fallen into his hands incriminated not only him, but his own father, Fred and George Weasley, and Professor Lupin, their last Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher.  Moody waved the map in front of Harry, who braced himself-
"Can I borrow this?"
"Oh!" said Harry.
He was very fond of his map, but on the other hand, he was extremely relieved that Moody wasn't asking where he'd got it, and there was no doubt that he owed Moody a favor.
"Yeah, okay."
"Good boy," growled Moody. "I can make good use of this . .. this might be exactly what I've been looking for. . . . Right, bed, Potter, come on, now. ..."
They climbed to the top of the stairs together, Moody still examining the map as though it was a treasure the like of which he had never seen before.  They walked in silence to the door of Moody's office, where he stopped and looked up at Harry.
"You ever thought of a career as an Auror, Potter?"
"No," said Harry, taken aback.
"You want to consider it," said Moody, nodding and looking at Harry thoughtfully. "Yes, indeed ... and incidentally ... I'm guessing you werent Just taking that egg for a walk tonight?"
 "Er - no," said Harry, grinning. "I've been working out the clue."
Moody winked at him, his magical eye going haywire again. "Nothing like a nighttime stroll to give you ideas, Potter. . .. See you in the morning...."
He went back into his office, staring down at the Marauders Map again, and closed the door behind him.
Harry walked slowly back to Gryffindor Tower, lost in thought about Snape, and Crouch, and what it all meant.... Why was Crouch pretending to be ill, if he could manage to get to Hogwarts when he wanted to?  What did he think Snape was concealing in his office?
And Moody thought he. Harry, ought to be an Auror!  Interesting idea.. . but somehow. Harry thought, as he got quietly into his four-poster ten minutes later, the egg and the cloak now safely back in his trunk, he thought he'd like to check how scarred the rest of them were before he chose it as a career.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX - THE SECOND TASK

You said you'd already worked out that egg clue!" said Hermione indignantly.
"Keep your voice down!"  said Harry crossly.  "I just need to - sort of fine-tune it, all right?"
He, Ron, and Hermione were sitting at the very back of the Charms class with a table to themselves.  They were supposed to be practicing the opposite of the Summoning Charm today - the Banishing Charm.  Owing to the potential for nasty accidents when objects kept flying across the room.  Professor Flitwick had given each student a stack of cushions on which to practice, the theory being that these wouldn't hurt anyone if they went off target.  It was a good theory, but it wasn't working very well.  Neville's aim was so poor that he kept accidentally sending much heavier things flying across the room - Professor Flitwick, for instance.
"Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?"  Harry hissed as Professor Flitwick went whizzing resignedly past them, landing on top of a large cabinet.  "I'm trying to tell you about Snape and Moody. ..."
This class was an ideal cover for a private conversation, as everyone was having far too much fun to pay them any attention.  Harry had been recounting his adventures of the previous night in whispered installments for the last half hour.
"Snape said Moodys searched his office as well?"  Ron whispered, his eyes alight with interest as he Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it soared into the air and knocked Parvati's hat off).  "What. . . d'you reckon Moody's here to keep an eye on Snape as well as Karkaroff?"
"Well, I dunno if that's what Dumbledore asked him to do, but he's definitely doing it," said Harry, waving his wand without paying much attention, so that his cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk.  "Moody said Dumbledore only lets Snape stay here because he's giving him a second chance or something. ..."
"What?" said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion spinning high into the air, ricocheting off the chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick's desk.  "Harry... maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name in the Goblet of Fire!"
"Oh Ron," said Hermione, shaking her head sceptically, "we thought Snape was trying to kill Harry before, and it turned out he was saving Harry's life, remember?"
She Banished a cushion and it flew across the room and landed in the box they were all supposed to be aiming at.  Harry looked at Hermione, thinking... it was true that Snape had saved his life once, but the odd thing was, Snape definitely loathed him, just as he'd loathed Harry s father when they had been at school together.  Snape loved taking points from Harry, and had certainly never missed an opportunity to give him punishments, or even to suggest that he should be suspended from the school.
"I don't care what Moody says," Hermione went on.  "Dumbledore's not stupid.  He was right to trust Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads of people wouldn't have given them jobs, so why shouldn't he be right about Snape, even if Snape is a bit -"
"- evil," said Ron promptly.  "Come on, Hermione, why are all these Dark wizard catchers searching his office, then?"
"Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?" said Hermione, ignoring Ron.  "Its a bit funny, isn't it, that he cant manage to come to the Yule Ball, but he can get up here in the middle of the night when he wants to?"
"You just don't like Crouch because of that elf, Winky," said Ron, sending a cushion soaring into the window.
"You just want to think Snapes up to something," said Hermione, sending her cushion zooming neatly into the box.
"I just want to know what Snape did with his first chance, if he's on his second one," said Harry grimly, and his cushion, to his very great surprise, flew straight across the room and landed neatly on top of Hermione's.

Obedient to Sirius's wish of hearing about anything odd at Hogwarts, Harry sent him a letter by brown owl that night, explaining all about Mr. Crouch breaking into Snape s office, and Moody and Snape's conversation.  Then Harry turned his attention in earnest to the most urgent problem facing him: how to survive underwater for an hour on the twenty-fourth of February.
Ron quite liked the idea of using the Summoning Charm again - Harry had explained about Aqua-Lungs, and Ron couldn't see why Harry shouldn't Summon one from the nearest Muggle town.  Hermione squashed this plan by pointing out that, in the unlikely event that Harry managed to learn how to operate an Aqua-Lung within the set limit of an hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking the International Code of Wizarding Secrecy - it was too much to hope that no Muggles would spot an Aqua-Lung zooming across the countryside to Hogwarts.
"Of course, the ideal solution would be for you to Transfigure yourself into a submarine or something," Hermione said.  "If only we'd done human Transfiguration already!  But I don't think we start that until sixth year, and it can go badly wrong if you don't know what you're doing...."
"Yeah, I don't fancy walking around with a periscope sticking out of my head," said Harry.  "I s'pose I could always attack someone in front of Moody; he might do it for me...."
"I don't think he'd let you choose what you wanted to be turned into, though," said Hermione seriously.  "No, I think your best chance is some sort of charm."
So Harry, thinking that he would soon have had enough of the library to last him a lifetime, buried himself once more among the dusty volumes, looking for any spell that might enable a human to survive without oxygen.  However, though he, Ron, and Hermione searched through their lunchtimes, evenings, and whole weekends - though Harry asked Professor McGonagall for a note of permission to use the Restricted Section, and even asked the irritable, vulture-like librarian.  Madam Pince, for help - they found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry to spend an hour underwater and live to tell the tale.
Familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb Harry now, and he was finding it difficult to concentrate in class again.  The lake, which Harry had always taken for granted as just another feature of the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he was near a classroom window, a great, iron-gray mass of chilly water, whose dark and icy depths were starting to seem as distant as the moon.
Just as it had before he faced the Horntail, time was slipping away as though somebody had bewitched the clocks to go extra-fast.  There was a week to go before February the twenty-fourth (there was still time) . . . there were five days to go (he was bound to find something soon) .. . three days to go (please let me find something... please). . .
With two days left.  Harry started to go off food again.  The only good thing about breakfast on Monday was the return of the brown owl he had sent to Sirius.  He pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the shortest letter Sirius had ever written to him.

Send date of next Hogsmeade weekend by return owl.

Harry turned the parchment over and looked at the back, hoping to see something else, but it was blank.
"Weekend after next," whispered Hermione, who had read the note over Harrys shoulder.  "Here - take my quill and send this owl back straight away."
Harry scribbled the dates down on the back of Sirius's letter, tied it onto the brown owl's leg, and watched it take flight again.  What had he expected?  Advice on how to survive underwater?  He had been so intent on telling Sirius all about Snape and Moody he had completely forgotten to mention the eggs clue.
"What's he want to know about the next Hogsmeade weekend for?" said Ron.
"Dunno," said Harry dully.  The momentary happiness that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had died.  "Come on ...Care of Magical Creatures."
Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast-Ended Skrewts, or because there were now only two skrewts left, or because he was trying to prove he could do anything that Professor Grubbly-Plank could.  Harry didnt know, but Hagrid had been continuing her lessons on unicorns ever since he'd returned to work.  It turned out that Hagrid knew quite as much about unicorns as he did about monsters, though it was clear that he found their lack of poisonous fangs disappointing.
Today he had managed to capture two unicorn foals.  Unlike full-grown unicorns, they were pure gold.  Parvati and Lavender went into transports of delight at the sight of them, and even Pansy Parkinson had to work hard to conceal how much she liked them.
"Easier ter spot than the adults," Hagrid told the class.  "They turn silver when they're abou' two years old, an' they grow horns at aroun four.  Don' go pure white till they're full grown, 'round about seven.  They're a bit more trustin when they're babies .. . don mind boys so much.... C'mon, move in a bit, yeh can pat 'em if yeh want. . . give 'em a few o' these sugar lumps. . . .
"You okay. Harry?"  Hagrid muttered, moving aside slightly, while most of the others swarmed around the baby unicorns.
"Yeah," said Harry.  "Jus' nervous, eh?"  said Hagrid.
"Bit," said Harry. 
"Harry," said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that Harry's knees buckled under its weight, "I'd've bin worried before I saw yeh take on tha Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin' yeh set yer mind ter.  I'm not worried at all.  Yeh're goin ter be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven' yeh?"
Harry nodded, but even as he did so, an insane urge to confess that he didn't have any idea how to survive at the bottom of the lake for an hour came over him.  He looked up at Hagrid - perhaps he had to go into the lake sometimes, to deal with the creatures in it?  He looked after everything else on the grounds, after all-
"Yeh're goin' ter win," Hagrid growled, patting Harrys shoulder again, so that Harry actually felt himself sink a couple of inches into the soft ground.  "I know it.  I can feel it.  Yeh're goin' ter win, Harry n
Harry just couldn't bring himself to wipe the happy, confident smile off Hagrid's face. Pretending he was interested in the young unicorns, he forced a smile in return, and moved forward to pat them with the others.

By the evening before the second task.  Harry felt as though he were trapped in a nightmare.  He was fully aware that even if, by some miracle, he managed to find a suitable spell, he'd have a real job mastering it overnight.  How could he have let this happen?  Why hadn't he got to work on the egg's clue sooner?  Why had he ever let his mind wander in class - what if a teacher had once mentioned how to breathe underwater?
He sat with Hermione and Ron in the library as the sun set outside, tearing feverishly through page after page of spells, hidden from one another by the massive piles of books on the desk in front of each of them.  Harry s heart gave a huge leap every time he saw the word "water" on a page, but more often than not it was merely "Take two pints of water, half a pound of shredded mandrake leaves, and a newt..."
"I don't reckon it can be done," said Rons voice flatly from the other side of the table. "There's nothing.  Nothing.  Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near powerful enough to drain the lake."
"There must be something," Hermione muttered, moving a candle closer to her.  Her eyes were so tired she was poring over the tiny print of Olde and Forgotten Bewitchments and Charmes with her nose about an inch from the page.  "They'd never have set a task that was undoable."
"They have," said Ron.  "Harry, just go down to the lake tomorrow, right, stick your head in, yell at the merpeople to give back whatever they've nicked, and see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate."
"There's a way of doing it!"  Hermione said crossly.  "There Just has to be!"
She seemed to be taking the library's lack of useful information on the subject as a personal insult; it had never failed her before.
"I know what I should have done," said Harry, resting, face-down, on Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts.  "I should've learned to be an Animagus like Sirius."
An Animagus was a wizard who could transform into an animal.
"Yeah, you could've turned into a goldfish any time you wanted!"  said Ron.
"Or a frog," yawned Harry.  He was exhausted.  "It takes years to become an Animagus, and then you have to register yourself and everything," said Hermione vaguely, now squinting down the index of Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions.  "Professor McGonagall told us, remember... you've got to register yourself with the Improper Use of Magic Office ...what animal you become, and your markings, so you can't abuse it..."
            "Hermione, I was joking," said Harry wearily.  "I know I haven't got a chance of turning into a frog by tomorrow morning...."
"Oh this is no use," Hermione said, snapping shut Weird Wizarding Dilemmas.  "Who on earth wants to make their nose hair grow into ringlets?"
"I wouldn't mind," said Fred Weasleys voice. "Be a talking point, wouldn't it?"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up.  Fred and George had just emerged from behind some bookshelves.
"What're you two doing here?" Ron asked.
"Looking for you," said George. "McGonagall wants you, Ron.  And you, Hermione."
"Why?"  said Hermione, looking surprised.
"Dunno ... she was looking a bit grim, though," said Fred.
"We're supposed to take you down to her office," said George.
Ron and Hermione stared at Harry, who felt his stomach drop.  Was Professor McGonagall about to tell Ron and Hermione off?  Perhaps she'd noticed how much they were helping him, when he ought to be working out how to do the task alone?
"We'll meet you back in the common room," Hermione told Harry as she got up to go with Ron - both of them looked very anxious.  "Bring as many of these books as you can, okay?"
"Right," said Harry uneasily.
By eight o'clock. Madam Pince had extinguished all the lamps and came to chivvy Harry out of the library.  Staggering under the weight of as many books as he could carry, Harry returned to the Gryffindor common room, pulled a table into a corner, and continued to search.  There was nothing in Madcap Magic for Wacky Warlocks. . . nothing in A Guide to Medieval Sorcery . . . not one mention of underwater exploits in An Anthology of Eighteenth-Century Charms, or in Dreadful Denizens of the Deep, or Powers You Never Knew You Had and What to Do with Them Now Youve Wised Up.
Crookshanks crawled into Harrys lap and curled up, purring deeply.  The common room emptied slowly around Harry.  People kept wishing him luck for the next morning in cheery, confident voices like Hagrid s, all of them apparently convinced that he was about to pull off another stunning performance like the one he had managed in the first task.  Harry couldn't answer them, he just nodded, feeling as though there were a golfball stuck in his throat. By ten to midnight, he was alone in the room with Crookshanks.  He had searched all the remaining books, and Ron and Hermione had not come back.
It's over, he told himself.  You can't do it.  You'll just have to go down to the lake in the morning and tell the judges....
He imagined himself explaining that he couldn't do the task.  He pictured Bagman's look of round-eyed surprise, Karkaroffs satisfied, yellow-toothed smile.  He could almost hear Fleur Delacour saying "I knew it. . . 'e is too young, 'e is only a little boy."  He saw Malfoy flashing his POTTER STINKS badge at the front of the crowd, saw Hagrid s crestfallen, disbelieving face. . . .
Forgetting that Crookshanks was on his lap.  Harry stood up very suddenly; Crookshanks hissed angrily as he landed on the floor, gave Harry a disgusted look, and stalked away with his bottlebrush tail in the air, but Harry was already hurrying up the spiral staircase to his dormitory. ... He would grab the Invisibility Cloak and go back to the library, he'd stay there all night if he had to. ...
"Lumos," Harry whispered fifteen minutes later as he opened the library door.
Wand tip alight, he crept along the bookshelves, pulling down more books - books of hexes and charms, books on merpeople and water monsters, books on famous witches and wizards, on magical inventions, on anything at all that might include one passing reference to underwater survival.  He carried them over to a table, then set to work, searching them by the narrow beam of his wand, occasionally checking his watch. . . .
One in the morning. . . two in the morning . . . the only way he could keep going was to tell himself, over and over again, next book. . . in the next one. . . the next one. . .

The mermaid in the painting in the prefects' bathroom was laughing.  Harry was bobbing like a cork in bubbly water next to her rock, while she held his Firebolt over his head.
"Come and get it!" she giggled maliciously. "Come on, jump!"
"I can't," Harry panted, snatching at the Firebolt, and struggling not to sink.  "Give it to me!"
But she just poked him painfully in the side with the end of the broomstick, laughing at him.
"That hurts - get off- ouch -"
"Harry Potter must wake up, sir!"
"Stop poking me -"
"Dobby must poke Harry Potter, sir, he must wake up!"
Harry opened his eyes.  He was still in the library; the Invisibility Cloak had slipped off his head as he'd slept, and the side of his face was stuck to the pages of Where There's a Wand, There's a Way.  He sat up, straightening his glasses, blinking in the bright daylight.
"Harry Potter needs to hurry!"  squeaked Dobby.  "The second task starts in ten minutes, and Harry Potter -"
"Ten minutes?" Harry croaked. "Ten - ten minutes?"
He looked down at his watch.  Dobby was right.  It was twenty past nine.  A large, dead weight seemed to fall through Harry's chest into his stomach.
"Hurry, Harry Potter!" squeaked Dobby, plucking at Harry's sleeve.  "You is supposed to be down by the lake with the other champions, sir!"
"It's too late, Dobby," Harry said hopelessly.  "I'm not doing the task, I don't know how-"
"Harry Potter will do the task!"  squeaked the elf.  "Dobby knew Harry had not found the right book, so Dobby did it for him!"
"What?"  said Harry. "But you don't know what the second task is -"
"Dobby knows, sir!  Harry Potter has to go into the lake and find his Wheezy -"